1. In 100-250 words or less, explain what the calculations above might tell you (or might not tell you!) about the "fairness" of your Naive Bayesian network.
Would you be willing to use your model to recommend starting salaries for employees at a firm?  Why or why not?
------ ANSWER-------------
So it seems like women are earning less than men overall, so I would not use this model to recommedn starting starting salaries at a firm.
Since the data displays more men who are earning higher than women then our model is giving these results so this means that it is likely
to make recommendations to higher more men and give them a higher salary. This means that the bias will have a domino effect in a sense
because if more men keep getting hired and get paid more than women then the datasets will keep representing this and the model will
keep enforcing the same suggestion ( with even more confidence each time). Ideally you want a model that does not discriminate by gender
and gives all its employees the salary that they deserve. Another problem with this model is that we are only accounting for two types of salary
(<50K and >=50K) which means that it is not really descriptive enough for more types of employees and can be too broad for the people hiring.

2. Then, in 100-250 words, respond to the question "What is the most significant thing you have learned from the Bayesian Network module, overall?".
This will complete our final "self-assessment exercise" for the term (and will be worth 0.25% of the course mark).
------ ANSWER-------------
I find that the chain rule is quite fascinating. I personally have not really enjoyed statistics at all. I remember when I was in second year and
I was praying to just pass the course so that I could move on and not have to retake STA256, so I sometimes find statistics a bit intimidating...
however, I took the time over the weekend to watch the profs videos and I found it very cool to draw graph and then see how it connected to the chain rule.
I also really like how having this chain rule simplifies probabilities that at first glance can feel like you really really need to wrap your head aorund them!
Overall, it was an interesting chapter but I would hoped to have more time to explore these topics instead of having to do it under minimal sleep.


3. Last thing .... please let us know (briefly) if the self-assessment exercises have been of any value!!
Should we continue the exercise next term?  Is there anything we can do to make them better the next time around?
------ ANSWER-------------
I think that the self-assesment exercises are great! I feel like they helped me think more about how I code and
how I was solving problems throughout this semester. For example, in one of the assignments it was very important
to think about coding efficiency and after seeing the big impact it can have, I'm more mindful of this moving forward.