1. The data present is kinda weird to me, there are huge gap between male and female percentage
between question 3,4 and 5,6 I can not tell it's becuase the data itself or becuase I impelement
the BNS wrong. I would not use this module to recommend starting salaries for employees at a firm.
 The reason is, everyone is different, and the data given cannot fully reflect a person’s true 
 working ability, not to mention that there may be different meanings hidden behind these data.
  For example, a person without salary may just retire but work. The ability may be much, 
  much better than others. So in general, the total amount of data is not large enough, 
  the types of data are not enough, and the meaning behind the data is not clear enough, 
  so I don’t agree with using these things to define a person

2. For Bayesian Network module this time I feel I have a better understanding of probilities.
The possibility of a series of events, I believe that before there is no bn, it is just a string
 of data for people, but now with the blessing of bn and computers, our calculations can become 
 faster and more accurate, making it difficult to think before like using pen to calculate a series 
 of idependent probability. But now with bn and cs the question of possibility has 
 become more meaningful, but I have to doubt the meaning of bn. Can the probability of an event 
 really be defined so simply as a value? If the set value itself is unreasonable, is the 
 calculated result really meaningful? Well, this sounds more like a question of probability itself, 
 like does a fifty-fifty percent coin really exist. Overall I think bn is kind of fun to calculate
  the probability of a huge series of events， sounds like predicting the future lol

3. I don't really think I leart a lot about BN in this Assignemnt, I'd say better add more autograder
to each part, so that we can learn more by expolore what we did wrong each test case. Even now im not
even sure which part of my code did wrong and really hard to debugg. Some more meaningful autograder
could really really help me. tbh I can learn a lot just by those 2 simple test case if there are more
I definatly can understand this part lot more