1. The calculation from question 1 and question 2 tell me that most if not all of the times, a person may have a higher salary if they are not female.
Looking at the resulting number from question 1, we see that it is near 1. This means that given a person that is a Female, our model built based off of
the stats gathered show that they are more likely to have a higher salary if they do not disclose their gender. The second they disclose their gender, the
probability that their salary is >=50k will drop. Similar inferences can be made using the number obtained for question 2, which is 0. This means that
given a person, if they disclose that they are male instead of keeping the gender unspecified, they are more likely to get a salary that is >=50k. Note that
this does not mean females will never have a salary >=50k while male will always have a salary >=50k, it just means that in terms of the chance of
having a salary above 50k, disclosing the gender is disadvantageous for females while advantageous for males. This is reflected by the resulting numbers
from question 5(~8%) and question 6(~25%), which shows that a higher percentage of men have the prediction of having a salary >=50k than women. Although the accuracies
of the predictions of salary being >=50k are ~57% and ~66% for women and men respectively, which I think has a mediocre accuracy, I would not use this model
to recommend starting salaries for employeees at a firm. Although the model got the correct prediction approximately 60% of the time, it is potentially overpaying
the other 40% of the people that got such a prediction but do not actually have such a salary. We also have not looked at how accuractely it predicts both >=50k and
<50k salary overall since some personnel with potential could be missed if the model underpredict and recommend a lower starting salary than he/she should have deserved.
Lastly, the model does contain gender biases between men and women and this does bring in the murky ethical issues of fairness between different genders.

2. From the Bayesian Network module, I think the most significant thing I have learned is the practice of the chain rule of probability and the simplification
of certain conditional probabilities given the conditional independency between the variables. Previously, I was only somewhat familiar with the most basic 
version of the Bayes Theorem since I consider myself not very comfortable with statistics, but after going through this specific assignment, I got more comfortable with
looking at the drawn out graphs between the different variables, their dependencies, the concept of hypergraphs, and also the "blocking" concept. With this, 
I was able to understand the ideas behind variable elimination and the different operations we perform on factors(sum, multiply, restrict).

3. I'm not sure how to improve on the self-assessment exercise for the next time around, but when I was doing these, most of the time I find myself thinking what was core
concept that I was initially the most clueless about. I'm not sure if this counts as "the most significant thing I've learned" for some people, but to me I think it's
just a self reminder that this concept (the most significant thing that I selected) is something that I was not familiar with and couldn't pick up easily and should be
thoroughly reviewed if necessary in the future.