1.
I can say that the fairness of the model is not adequate. The probabilities of having over a salary 50K for women without considering gender
are higher than when gender is considered nearly 100% over the time while the men have the opposite problem with 0 probabilities of having
over a salary 50K for men without considering gender versus considering gender. It does classify people with a probability of having a salary >= 50K being greater than 0.5
as having that salary amount over half of the time when looking at men and women which is a somewhat good but still not a good accuracy to generalize well. 
This isn’t adequate and thus shouldn’t be used to recommend starting salaries as the model doesn’t perform as well as it should 
having biases with gender and difficulty with predicting who has a good chance of getting a high salary (which means they are successful 
employees).

2.
The most significant thing I have learned from the Bayesian Network module is that dictionaries are much more useful than I thought. It 
was definitely harder to understanding how to code the model using lists instead of using dictionaries which seems like a better fit for
this type of problem. Using dictionaries would have helped with understanding how the code works sine the keys could have been the values
for the variables and the values would have been the probability. I used dictionaries extensively in my code to help me manage which variable
assignments correspond to which values. It was helpful with the NaiveBayesModel as I could count all the events and access them quickly
so that I could complete the calcutions in an easy manner.

3.
I would say that the self-assessment exercises were of no value to me particularly. It was mostly a struggle to write something I found
significant because there wasn't much I could think of. I tried to put whatever I thought I learned but it wasn't really valuable to me.
I would say this type of exercise wasn't very helpful to me. What could have been more useful would have been to describe the process of 
how I solved the problem or at least attempted to do it. That would be more beneficial in my opinion.