1. In 100-250 words or less, explain what the calculations above might tell you (or might not tell you!) about the "fairness" of your Naive Bayesian network.  
Would you be willing to use your model to recommend starting salaries for employees at a firm?  Why or why not?

ANS: While the above calculations told us how gender had not affected a particular subset in terms of prediction, it has not shown if gender affects any other evidence subset.
so how much gender alters our calculations are still inconclusive. However, we see do see the prediction for both gerders nominally have the same accuracy range, 
with around 1% uncertainty.
While the prediction for both gerders roughly match; The network predicts higher incomes in men around 6% more than it does women. So no, 
there is bias, most likey in the data, toawards male salary, the firm should not use my model, atleast not untill it can be trained with more data.

2. Then, in 100-250 words, respond to the question "What is the most significant thing you have learned from the Bayesian Network module, overall?".  
This will complete our final "self-assessment exercise" for the term (and will be worth 0.25% of the course mark).

ANS: The most important thing I have learned is the importance of correctly assessing correlation and causation. Our probabilitiy model hinges on
inferred relations, or failing that, a series of predictive algorithms to approximate a relation. This of course causes problems of our own. Too
large a sample size could introduce noise to our data, rendering our predictions homogenous. Yet too little could introduce bias present with the 
data, as with our model above. Ferther still is the ethical debate, should we introduce data points like gender to our data points, would they not
contain societal biases present, how about nationality or race? When can we sacrifice accuracy for ethics? Who is to decide what is correlation and
what is causation?

3. Last thing .... please let us know (briefly) if the self-assessment exercises have been of any value!!  Should we continue the exercise next term?  
Is there anything we can do to make them better the next time around?

ANS: The self-assessment helped me refect on what I learned, and serves as a good grounding end point for my work. I think it should be countinued,
with more prompts like the one above, to encourage alternative thinking.